>> Hello, YouTube.
Hello, Justin.
>> Hello.
>> Awesome to have you here on the channel and just in a minute on the podcast.
So for those of you watching live, please put out questions, comments, thoughts.
We'll try to make them part of the show for those of you watching the recording.
No live chat, but thanks for being here and checking out anyway.
All right.
With that, let's go ahead and kick it off.
Justin, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
Thanks for having me. It's great to have you here. I'm a little suspicious. I got to know,
I don't really know how to test whether you're actually Justin or an AI speaking as Justin.
What's the deal here? Yeah, there's no way to know now.
Apparently, I've recently learned from you that I can give you a bunch of Xs and other
arbitrary characters. This is like the test. It's like asking Germans to say squirrel in
World War II sort of thing, like it's the test, it's the tell.
There's always going to be something, some sort of adversarial attack.
Exactly. It's only going to get more interesting with this kind of stuff, for sure.
So we're going to talk about using generative AI and large language models,
paired with things like Pandas, or consumed with straight Python,
with a couple of your projects, which are super exciting.
I think it's going to empower a lot of people in ways that it hasn't really been done yet.
So awesome on that.
But before we get to it, let's start with your story.
How did you get into programming in Python?
Sure.
Yeah.
I got into programming just like when I was a kid, TI-83, learning to code on that.
And then sort of just kept it up as a side hobby my whole life.
Didn't ever sort of choose it as my career path or anything for a while.
It chose you.
Yeah.
It just, I dragged it along with me everywhere.
It's just like the toolkit.
I got a, went to undergrad
for physics electrical engineering,
then did a physics PhD, experimental physics.
During that, I did a lot of non-traditional languages,
things like LabVIEW, Igor Pro,
just weird Windows hotkey
for like just trying to like automate things.
So just was sort of dragging that along.
But along that path, I sort of came across GPUs
and used it for accelerating processing,
specifically like particle detection.
So it was doing some like electron counting
in some detector experiments.
- And just like two to cores on NVIDIA type things.
- Precisely.
- Stuff like that.
- That was the--
- Was that with Python or was that with C++ or what?
- At the time it was C++ and I made like a DLL
and then called it from LabVIEW, but--
- Wow, that's some crazy integration.
It's like drag and drop programming too on the memory GPU.
- Exactly, it was all over the place.
Also had, it was a distributed LabVIEW project.
We had multiple machines that were coordinating
and doing this, all just to move some motors
and measure electrons.
But it got me into CUDA stuff, which then at the time
was around the time that the, like AlexNet,
some of these like very first neural net stuff
was happening.
And so those same convolutional kernels
where the same exact code I was trying to write
to run convolutions on these images.
And so it's like, oh, look at this paper.
Oh, let me go read it.
It seems like it's got so many citations.
This is interesting.
And then that sent me down the rabbit hole of like,
oh, this AI stuff.
Oh, okay, let me go deep dive into this.
And then that just, I'd say that became the obsession
from then.
So it's been like eight years of doing that.
Then sort of just after I left academia,
tried my own startup, then joined multiple others
and just sort of have been bouncing around
as the founding engineer, early engineer at startups
for a while now.
And Python has been the choice ever since late grad school
and on.
I would say it sort of came through the pandas and NumPy
part, but then stuck for the scripting, just power.
Just can throw anything together at any time.
Yeah.
So it seems like there were two groups that were just
hammering GPUs, hammering them.
Crypto miners and AI people,
but the physicists and some of those people doing large scale
research like that they were the OG graphics card users right way
before crypto mining existed and really before AI was using
graphics cards all that much.
I think yeah, I think when I was like looking at some of the
code like pre CUDA, there were some like quant traders that
doing some like crazy stuff on like off of shaders like it wasn't even CUDA yet but it
was shaders and they were trying to like extract the compute power out of them from that so
if we could shave one millisecond off this we can short them all day let's do it but
yeah uh yeah the the physicist has always been like yeah it's always the get as much
compute as you can out of the you know devices you have because you get simulations are slow
Yeah, I remember when I was in grad school studying math,
actually senior year of regular college, my bachelor's,
the research team that I was on had gotten
a used Silicon Graphics computer for a quarter million
dollars and some Onyx workstations that we all were given
to, I'm like, this thing is so awesome.
A couple of years later, like an NVIDIA graphics card
and like a simple PC would crush it,
like that's $2,000, it's just, yeah,
There's so much power in those things
to be able to harness them for whatever, I guess.
- Yeah, as long as you don't have too much branching,
it works really well.
- Awesome.
So let's jump in and start talking about,
let's start to talk about ChatGP
and some of this AI stuff before we totally get into
the projects that you're working on,
which brings that type of conversational generative AI
to things like pandas, as you said.
But to me, I don't know how--
maybe you've been more on the inside than I have.
But to me, it looks like AI has been
one of those things that's 30 years in the future forever.
It was like the Turing test, and oh, here's
a chat I'm going to talk to this thing
and see if it feels human or not.
And then there was OCR.
And then all of a sudden, we got self-driving cars.
"Wait a minute, that's actually solving real problems."
And then we got things like ChatGPT
where people are like, "Wait, this can do my job."
It seems like just in the last couple years
there's been some inflection point in this world.
What do you think?
Paul: Yeah, I think there's two key things
that have happened in the past four or five years.
Four years, roughly.
One is the "Attention is all you need" paper from Google.
sort of this transformer architecture came out
and it's sort of a good, very hungry model
that can just sort of absorb a lot of facts
and just like a nice learnable key value store almost
that's stacked.
So, and then the other thing is, is that GPUs,
we were sort of just talking about GPU compute,
but this has just been really,
GPU compute has really been growing so fast.
If you like look at the like Moore's law equivalent
type things, like it's just, it's faster
how much we're getting flops out of these things
like faster and faster.
So it's been really nice.
I mean, obviously, there'll be a wall eventually.
But it's been good riding this exponential curve for a bit.
Yeah, is the benefit that we're getting from the faster GPUs,
is that because people are able to program it better
and the frameworks are getting better,
or because just the raw processing power
is getting better?
All of the above.
I think that there was a paper that tried to dissect this.
I wish I knew the reference.
But I believe that their argument
was that it was actually more the processing power was getting
better.
The actual physical silicon, we're
getting better at making that for specifically
this type of stuff.
But like--
>>Luis: The power--
>>Tom: --on exponentials.
But yeah.
>>Luis: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The power that those things take.
I have a gaming system over there.
And it has a GeForce 2070 Super.
I don't know what the Super really gets me.
But it's better than the not Super, I guess.
Anyway, that one still plugs into the wall normal.
But the newer ones, like the 4090s, those things,
the amount of power they consume,
it's like space heater level of power.
I don't know, 800 watts or something just for the GPU?
You're going to brown out the house if you plug
in too many of those.
Yeah.
Go look at those DGX A100 clusters.
And they've got eight of those A100s just stacked right
there. They take really beefy power supplies. It's built right directly attached to the power
the power plant, electrical power plant. Nuts. Okay, so yeah, so those things are getting really
really massive. Here's the paper, "Attention is all you need" from Google Research. What was the
story of that? Where's that play into things? Yeah, so this came up during like machine
translation sort of research at Google.
And the core thing is they present this idea of instead of just stacking these layers of
neural nets like we're sort of used to, they replace the neural net layer with this concept
of a transformer block.
Transformer block has this concept inside that's an attention mechanism.
The attention mechanism is effectively three matrices
that you combine in a specific order.
And the sort of logic is that one of the vectors
takes you from some space to keys.
So it's almost like it's identifying labels out
of your data.
Another one is taking you from your data to queries.
And then it dot products those to find a weight.
And then another one finds values for your things.
So it takes this query and key, you get the weights for them,
and then you take the ones that were sort of the closest
to get those values from the third matrix.
And just doing it sort of like looks a little bit
like accessing an element in a dictionary,
like key value lookup.
And it's a differentiable version of that.
And it did really well on their machine learning,
oh, sorry, on their machine translation stuff.
This was, I think it's like one of the first big ones,
this BERT model.
And that paper sort of--
the architecture of the actual neural net code
is effectively unchanged from this to ChatGPT.
There's a lot of stuff for milking performance
and increasing stability.
But the actual core essence of the actual mechanism
that drives it, it's the same thing since this paper.
Interesting.
It's funny that Google didn't release something sooner.
It's wild that they've had--
They keep showing off that they've
got equivalent or better things at different times,
but then not releasing it.
When Dolly happened, they had Imagine, I guess.
I don't know how you say it.
And what was the--
Parti, as the two?
They had two different really good, way better than Dolly,
way better than stable diffusion models that were out.
And they showed it, demoed it, but never
released it to be used.
So yeah, it's one of these--
who knows what's going to happen with Google if they keep holding
- Yeah, well, I think there was some hesitation.
I don't know, holds up on accuracy
or weird stuff like that.
(laughing)
- Yeah, now it cuts out of the bag now,
now it's happening.
- Yeah, the cat's out of the bag
and people are racing to do the best they can.
And it's gonna have interesting consequences for us,
both positive and negative, I think,
but let's leverage the positive
once the cat's out of the bag anyway, right?
- Yeah, hopefully.
- Might as well, like ask it.
questions for pandas.
So let's play a little bit with chat GDP
and maybe another one of these image type things.
So I came in here and I stole this example from a blog post
that's pretty nice about not using deeply nested codes.
You can use a design pattern called a guarding clause that
will look and say if the conditions are not right,
we're going to return early instead of having if something,
if that also, if something else.
So there's this example that is written in a poor way
and it says like, it's checking for a platypus.
So it says, if self-thought is mammal,
if self-thought has fur,
if self-thought has beak, et cetera, et cetera.
It's all deeply nested.
And just for people who haven't played with chat GDP,
like I put that in and I said, sure.
I told her I wanted to call this arrow
'cause it looks like an arrow.
And it says, it tells me a little bit about this.
So I'm gonna ask it,
please rewrite arrow to be less nested with girding clauses.
This is like a machine.
If I tell it this, what is it going to say?
Let's see.
It may fail, but I think it's going to get it.
It's thinking.
I mistakenly put it into chat GDP4, which takes longer.
I might switch it over to 3.
I don't know.
But the understanding of these things,
there's a lot of hype about it.
Like, but you, I think you kind of agree with me that maybe this hype is worthwhile.
Here we go.
So, look, look at this.
It rewrote.
It's a deaf is platypus.
If not self as man, I'll return false.
If not has for, and there's no more nesting.
That's pretty cool.
Right?
Yep.
I mean, I'm sure you've, you've, you've played with stuff like this, right?
Well, you've, so this is what kind, I mean, this is kind of interesting, right?
Like it understood there was a structure
and it understood what these were
and it understood what I said.
But what's more impressive is like,
please rewrite the program to check for crocodiles.
And what is it gonna do here?
Let's see.
It says, sure, no problem.
Then writes the function isCrocodile.
If not, self.isReptile.
If not, self.hasScales.
if not self-taught has a long snout.
Oh my gosh, like it not only remembered,
oh yeah, there's this new version I wrote in
the garden clause format but then it rewrote the tests.
I mean, and then it's explaining to me why it wrote it that way.
It's just mind-blowing how much you can have conversations with this,
and how much it understands things like code,
or physics, or history.
What do you think?
- Yeah, it's really satisfying.
I love that it's such a powerful generalist
at these things that are found on the internet.
So if it exists and it's in the training data,
it can do so good at synthesizing, composing,
bridging between them.
It's really satisfying.
So it's really fun asking it to, as you're doing,
rewriting, changing language.
I've been getting into a lot more JavaScript
because I'm doing a bunch more front end stuff.
And just I sometimes will write a quick one liner
write a quick one-liner in Python that I know how to do with a list comprehension. And then
I'll be like, make this for me in JavaScript because I can't figure out this, like, how
to initialize an array with integers in it. It's great for just really quick spot checks.
And it also seems to know a lot about really popular frameworks. So you can ask it things
that are surprisingly detailed about, like, how would you do cores with requests in FastAPI?
It can help you find that exact middleware.
It's like boilerplatey, but it's great
that it can just be a source for that.
- It's insane.
I don't know if I've got it in my history here.
We're rewriting our mobile apps for Talk by The Unchained
for our courses in Flutter,
and we're having a problem downloading stuff concurrently
using a particular library in Flutter.
And so I asked it,
I said, hey, I want some help with a Flutter and Dart
program.
He says, what do you want?
I says, I'm using the DIO package.
Do you know it?
Oh, yes, I'm familiar.
It does HTTP client stuff for Dart.
OK.
I want to download binary video files and a bunch of them,
given a URL.
I want to do them concurrently with three of them at a time.
Write the code for that.
And boom, it just writes it.
Like, using that library I told you about, not just Dart.
So I think that's just, that's incredible
that we can get this kind of assistance
for knowledge and programming.
Like you'll never find, I mean, I take that back.
You might find that if there's a very specific
stack overflow question or something,
but if there's not a write-on question for it,
you're not gonna find it.
- Yep, yep.
It's the, yeah, I love the, when you have a,
like you know the stack overflow would exist
for a variant of your question,
but it's like the exact one doesn't exist
and you have to go grab like the three of them to synthesize
And it's just great at that.
It's also, yeah.
It also is pretty good at fixing errors.
I mean, sometimes it can walk itself
into just like lying to you repeatedly, but yeah.
- That's that accuracy part.
- Code is code.
- It's so problematic, yeah.
But you can also ask it like, here's my program.
Are there security vulnerabilities?
Or do you see any bugs?
And it'll find them.
- Yep.
- Yeah, it's nuts.
So people may be wondering,
we haven't talked yet about your project sketch.
Why I'm talking so much about ChatsCP.
So that is kind of the style of AI
that your project brings to Pandas, which we're gonna get to.
But I wanna touch on two more really quick AI things
that we'll dive into it.
The other is this just around images,
just the ability to ask questions.
You've already mentioned three, Dolly, Imagine,
and then the other one, I don't remember from Google
that they haven't put out yet.
And Mid-Journey is another,
like just the ability to say,
hey, I want a picture of this.
No, actually change it slightly like that.
It's mind-blowing.
- It's very, they're a lot of fun.
They're great for sparking creativity
or having an idea and just getting to see it in front of you.
- I think it's more impressive to me
than even this chat, GTP telling me how to write Dart
is 'cause it's like, I gave you a blank canvas.
And so for example, for this video,
for this conversation, I'll probably use this
as the YouTube thumbnail and image for this episode.
So I want an artificial intelligence panda.
And it came up, and I want it photorealistic
in the style of National Geographic.
And so it gave me this panda.
You can see beautiful whiskers, but just behind the ear,
you can see the fur is gone, and it's
like an Android type of creature.
That's incredible.
That is a beautiful picture.
It's pretty accurate.
It's nuts that I can just go talk to these systems
and ask them these questions.
Yeah.
I find it interesting you're comparing the ChatGPT
in the Mid-Journey style and find the Mid-Journey ones
impressive.
They are, like, I completely get it.
Like, it's very visceral.
It's also, from like another perspective,
I think of like the weights and the scale of the model.
And the Mid-Journey, you know, these like image ones
that like solve all images are so much smaller in scale
than these like language ones
that have all this other data and stuff.
So it's fascinating how complex language is.
- Yeah, I know the smarts is so much less.
But just something about it actually came up
with a creative picture that never existed.
Yeah, right. You could show this to somebody like, Oh, that's an artificial panda. That's
insane, right? But it's, but I just gave it like a sentence or two. Yeah, yeah, I don't
know. Yeah, this is a sort of a technical interpretation. But I, I love it because it's
like this. It's just phenomenal interpolation. It's like through semantically labeled space.
So like the words have meaning, and it understands the meeting and can move sliders of like,
well, I've seen lots of these machine things. I understand the concept of gears and this
metal and this like the shiny texture and then the fur texture and like a specific they're very good
at texture uh and so uh yeah it's uh yeah really great how uh it interprets all of that just to fit
the you know the small prompt yeah there are other angles which is frustrating like i want it i want
it in the back of the picture not the no it's always in the center uh one more thing really
quick uh and this leads me into my final thing is is uh github copilot github copilot is like
this in your editor, which is kind of insane, right?
You can just give it a comment or a series of comments,
and it will write it.
I think chat GDPs may be more open-ended and more creative,
but this is also a pretty interesting way--
I'm a heavy user of Copilot.
If there's a weird crux, and I'm slowly
developing a need to have this in my browser--
I was on a flight recently and was with the internet,
and Copilot wasn't working.
And I felt the difference.
I felt like I was walking through mud instead of just
actually running a little bit.
And I was like, oh.
I've been disconnected from my distributed mind.
I am broken partially.
Incredible.
So the last part, I guess, is what are the ethics of this?
I went on very positively about MidJourney,
but how much of that is trained on copyright material?
Or there's GitHub Copilot.
How much of that is trained on GPL-based stuff
that was in GitHub?
But when I use it, I don't have the GPL any longer on my code.
I might use it on a commercial code.
But just running it through the AI,
does that strip licenses, or does it not?
There's GitHubCopilotLitigation.com,
which is interesting.
We might be finding out. There's also, I think, Getty.
I think it's Getty Images. I'm not 100% sure.
But I think Getty Images is suing one of these image generation companies.
I can't remember which one.
Maybe Midjourney. I don't think it's Midjourney.
I think it's Stable Diffusion. But anyway, it doesn't really matter.
There's a bunch of things that are pushing back against us.
Like, "Wait a minute. Where did you get this data?
Did you have rights to use this data in this way?"
And I mean, what are your thoughts on this angle of AI
these days?
Yeah.
I know it sounds like--
I don't have-- I don't worry too much about it
in either direction.
I think I believe in--
like, I get personal ethics.
I believe in open source things, availability of things,
because it just sort of accelerates collective
progress.
But that said, I also believe in slightly different
social structures to help support people.
Like I'm a, I guess a personal believer in things like UBI
or something like that on that direction.
So I, when you combine those, I feel like it,
things sort of work out kind of well,
but when we like, but it is still a thing that like
copyright exists and that there is this sense of ownership
and this is my thing and I wanted to put licenses on it.
And yeah, it's, I think it's,
I think that this sort of story started presumably
that I wasn't really having this conversation,
But like when the internet came around
and search engines happened and like Google could just go
and pull up your thing from your page
and summarize it in a little blob on the page.
Was that fair?
What if it starts, you know, your shop
and it allows you to go buy that same product
from other shops?
Like it, I think that the same things are showing up.
And in the same way that the web, like in the internet,
sort of, it's sort of, it was a large thing,
but then it sort of, I don't know if it got quieter,
but it sort of became in the background,
we sort of found new systems.
stop being piracy and CDs and the music industry is going to struggle and hey, things like
Spotify exist and streaming services exist and like, I don't know what the next wave
is.
Doing better than ever, basically.
Yeah.
So I think it's just evolution and like some things will change and adopt, some things
will like fall apart and new things will be born.
It's just a great, it's a good time for lots of opportunity, I guess is the part that I'm
excited about.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure.
I think that's definitely true.
Probably you're probably right.
will turn out to be old man yells at cloud, cloud doesn't care sort of story in the end.
Whereas on the other hand, if somebody came back and said, a court came back and said,
you know what, actually anything trained on GPL and then you use Copilot on it, that's
GPL, that would have instantly mega effects, right?
Yeah.
And I guess there's also stuff like the, I didn't actually read the article.
I only saw the headline.
And yeah, that's the worst thing to do
is to repeat a thing, which has a headline.
But there was that Italy thing that I saw about,
like, I don't know the extent.
Yeah, that was really clickbaity,
but I didn't get a time to look at it yet.
So.
- You probably asked chat to be to summarize it for you.
- If as long as it can be a Bing, I guess,
get that updated.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
There's a lot of,
there's a lot of things playing in that space, right?
Some different places.
Okay, so yeah, very cool.
But as a regular user, I would say,
regardless of how you feel about this,
at least this is my viewpoint right now,
it's like regardless of how I feel
about which side is right in these kinds of disputes,
this stuff is out of the bag.
It's out there and available and it's a tool.
And it's like saying, I don't wanna use spell check
or I don't wanna use some kind of like code checking.
I just wanna write like in straight notepad
because it's pure, right?
Like, sure, you could do that, but there's these tools
that will help us be more productive,
and it's better to embrace them and know them
than to just like yell at them, I suppose.
(laughing)
- Yeah, a lot of accelerant you can get,
really speed up whatever you wanna get done.
- Yeah, absolutely.
All right, so speaking of speeding up things,
let's talk pandas.
And not even my artificial pandas,
but actual programming pandas.
With this project that you all have
from Approximate Labs called Sketch.
So Sketch is pretty awesome.
Sketch is actually why we're talking today
because I first talked about this on Python Bytes
and I saw this was sent over there by Jake Furman
and to me and said, "You should check this thing out.
"It's awesome."
And yeah, it's pretty nuts.
So tell us about Sketch.
- Yeah, so even though I use a Copilot,
as sort of described already, and it's become a crux,
I found in Jupyter Notebooks, when I wanted to work with data,
it just didn't--
it doesn't actually apply.
So on one side, it was sort of like missing the mark at times.
And so it was sort of like, how can I
get this integrated into my flow,
the way I actually work in a Jupyter Notebook?
Maybe I'm working a Jupyter Notebook on a remote server,
and I don't want to set up VS Code to do it,
so I don't have Copilot at all.
Like, there's a bunch of different reasons
that I was just like, in Jupyter.
It's a very different IDE experience.
- Yeah, it's super different.
But also, you might want to ask questions about the data,
not the structure of the code that analyzes the data, right?
- Exactly, yeah.
And so just a bunch of that type of stuff.
And then also at the other side,
I was, this sounds,
I was trying to find something that I could throw together
that I thought was a strong demonstration
of the value Approximate Labs is trying to chase,
but wouldn't take me too much time to make.
So it was a,
oh, I could probably just go throw this together
pretty quickly.
I bet this is gonna be actually useful and helpful.
And so let's just do that.
And so through on top of the actual library I was using
that was Sketch, I put this on it and then shipped it.
So sort of shifted what the project was.
- Yeah, yeah.
So you also have this other project called Lambda Prompt.
So were you trying to play around Lambda Prompt
and then like see what you could kind of apply here
to leverage it or is that?
- Yeah, yeah, the full journey I can get into
It started with data sketches, left my last job
to chase bringing the algorithm,
like combining data sketches with AI,
but just like the vague, like at that level.
- Go through what a data sketch is real quick.
- Sure, yeah.
So a data sketch is a probabilistic aggregation of data.
So if you have a, I think the most common one
that people have heard of is HyperLogLog,
and it's used to estimate cardinality.
So estimate the number of unique values in a column.
A data sketch is a class of algorithms
that all use roughly fixed width in binary, usually,
representations.
And then in a single pass, so they're ON,
will look at each row and hash the row
and then update the sketch.
Or not necessarily hash, but they update this sketch object,
essentially.
And those sketch objects also have another property,
that they are mergeable.
So you have this really fast ON to aggregate up,
and you get this mergeability.
So you can map reduce it in trivial speeds.
The net result is that this tight binary packed object
can be used to approximate measures you were looking
for on the original data.
So you could look at-- if you do a few of these--
they're called theta sketches-- you can go and estimate
not just the unique count, but you can also
estimate if this one column would join well with this other column.
Or you can estimate, oh, if I were to join this column to this column,
then this third column that was on that other table would actually be correlated
to this first column over here. So you get
these like a bunch of different distributions,
you get a whole bunch of these types of properties,
and each sketch is sort of just, I would say, algorithmically engineered,
like very, very engineered to be like information theory optimal at solving
one of those measures on the data.
And so they're tight packed binary representations.
>> All right.
So you thought about, well, that's cool, but chat CDP is cool too.
>> Yeah.
>> What else?
The core thing was, so those representations aren't usable by AI right now.
And when you actually go and use GPT-3 or something like this, you have to figure out
a way to build the prompt to get it to do what you want.
This was especially true in a pre-instruction tuning world.
You had to really play the prompt engineer role even more than you have to now.
Now you can sort of get away with describing it to ChatGPT.
And one of the things that you really have to play the game of is how do you get all
all the information it's going to need into this prompt
in a succinct but good enough way that it helps it do this.
And so what Sketch was about was rather than just looking
at the context of the data, like the metadata,
the column names and the code you have,
also go get some representation
of the content of the data,
turn that into a string and then bring that string in
as part of the prompt.
And then when it has that,
it should understand much better at actually generating code,
generating answers to questions.
And that's what that sketch was a proof of concept of that,
that worked very well.
It really quickly showed how valuable actual data content
context is.
- Yeah, I would say people are, it's resonating with people.
It's got 1.5 thousand stars on GitHub.
It looks about six months old.
So that's pretty good growth there.
- Yeah, January 16th was the day I posted it on Hacker News
and it had three, it was an empty repo at that point.
- Three stars, it's like me and my friends.
Okay, cool.
So this is a tool that basically patches pandas
to add functionality or functions,
literally to pandas data frames
that allows you to ask questions about it, right?
- Yep.
- So what kind of questions can you ask it
and what can it help you with?
- Yeah, so there's two classes of questions you can ask.
You can ask it the ask type questions.
These are sort of from that summary statistics data.
So from the general representation of your data,
ask it to like give you answers about it.
Like what are the columns here?
You sort of have a conversation
where it sort of understands the general shape of the data,
general distributions, things like that, number of uniques,
and give that context to it, ask questions of that system.
And then the other one is ask it how to do something.
So you specifically can get it to write code
to solve a problem you have.
You describe the problem you want
and you can ask it to do that.
- I've got this data frame.
I wanna plot a graph of this versus that,
but color by the other thing.
- Yep, and in the data space world,
what I sort of decided to do is like in the demo here
is just sort of walk through
what are some standard things people wanna ask of data?
Like what are those common questions that you hear
like in Slack between a business team and an analyst team?
And it's just sort of like, oh, can you do this?
Can you get me this?
Can you tell me if there's any PII?
Is this safe to send?
Can I send the CSV around?
Can you clean up this CSV?
Oh, I need to load this into our catalog.
Can you describe each of these columns
and check the data types?
All the way to, can you actually go get me analytics
or plot this?
- Yeah, awesome.
So, and it plugs right into Jupyter Notebooks.
You can just import it and basically installing Sketch,
which is a pip or conda type thing,
and then you just import it and it's good to go, right?
- Yep, using the Pandas extensions API,
which allows you to essentially hook into their data frame,
call back and register a, you know, a function.
- Interesting, so it's not as jammed on from the outside.
It's a little more, plays a little nicer with pandas
rather than just like, we're gonna go to the class
and just hack on it.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, not full monkey patching here.
It's like half supported, I think.
I don't see it used often, but it is somewhere in the docs.
- Excellent, but here it is.
So what I wanted to do for this is there's an example
that you can do, like if you go to the repo,
which obviously I'll link to.
There's a video, which I mean, mad props to you
because I review so many things,
especially for the Python Bytes podcast,
where there's a bunch of news items,
new things we're just gonna check out.
And we'll find people recommending GUI frameworks
that have not a single screenshot.
(laughs)
Other types of things like,
I have no way to judge whether this thing even might look,
like, what does it even make?
I don't even know, but somebody put a lot of effort,
but they didn't bother to post an image.
And you posted a minute and a half animation
of it going through this process, which
is really, really excellent.
So people can go and watch that one minute, one minute 30
video.
But there's also a Colab, open in Google Colab,
which gives you a running interactive variant here.
So you can just follow along and play these pieces.
It requires me to sign up on and run, but that's OK.
So let me talk people through some of the things it does.
And you can tell me what it's doing, how it's doing that,
how people might find that advantageous.
So import sketch, import pandas as PD standard.
And then you can say pandas read CSV.
And you give it one from some example CSV
that you got on one of your GitHub repos, right?
Or in your account.
- Yeah, I found one online and then added
just random synthetic data to it.
- Yeah, like, oh, here's a data dump.
No, just kidding.
So then you need to go to that data frame called sales data.
You say .sketch.ask as a string, what columns might have PII, personal identifying information,
in them?
Awesome.
And so, it comes, tell me how that works and what it's doing here.
So it does, I guess, it has to build up the prompt, which is sent to GPT, so to OpenAI's
specific completion endpoint.
The building up the prompt, it looks at the data frame.
It does a bunch of summarization stats on it.
So it calculates uniques and sums and things like that.
There's two modes in the backend
that either does sketches to do those
or it just uses like df.describe type stuff.
And then it pulls those summary stats together
for all the columns,
throws it together with the rest of the prompt I have.
You can go find it.
But then it sends that prompt.
It also grabs some information off of inspect.
So it sort of like walks the stack up
to go and check the variable name
'cause the data frame is named sales data.
So it actually tries to go find that variable name
in your call stack so that it can,
when it writes code, it writes valid code.
Puts all that together, send it off to OpenAI,
gets code back, uses Python AST to parse it,
check that it's valid.
If it's not valid Python code,
or you tried to import something that you don't have,
it will ask it to rewrite once.
So this is sort of like an iterative process.
So it takes the error or it takes the thing
and it sends it back to OpenAI.
It's like, hey, fix this code.
And then, or in this case, sorry, ask.
It actually just takes this, sends that exact same prompt
but it just changes the last question to,
can you answer this question off of the information we have.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so that sounds very, very similar to my arrow program.
Rewrite it with guarding clauses, redo it.
Like kind of, I gave you this data and this code
and I asked you this question
and you can have a little conversation,
but at some point you're like, "All right, well,
we're going to take what it gives me
after a couple of rounds at it."
- Yeah, I take the first one that doesn't,
that passes an import check and passes AST linting.
When you use small models,
you run into not valid Python a lot more,
but with these ones, it's almost always good.
- It's ridiculous, yeah. It's crazy.
Okay, so it says, "The columns that might have PII in them
in them are credit card, SSN, and purchase address.
Okay, that's pretty excellent.
And then you say, all right, salesdata.sketch.ask,
can you give me friendly names for each column
and output this as an HTML list,
which is parsed as HTML and rendered
in Jupyter Notebook accurately, right?
So it says index, well, that's an index.
- This one ends up being the same.
- It's not a great, this one is not a great example
because it doesn't have to infer
because the names are like order space date, right?
Instead of order, like maybe lowercase O
and then like attach the big D or whatever,
but it'll give you some more information.
You can like kind of ask it questions
about the type of data, right?
- Yep, yeah, exactly.
I found this is really good at,
if you play the game and you just name all your columns,
like call one, call two, call three, call four,
and you ask it, give me new column names for all of these.
It gives you something that's pretty reasonable
based off of the data.
So pretty useful.
- Okay, so it's like, oh, these look like addresses.
So we'll call that address.
And this looks like social security numbers
and credit scores and whatnot.
- Yep, so it can really help
with that quick first onboarding step.
- Yeah, so, all right.
Everyone heard it here first.
Just name all your columns, one, two, three, four,
and then just get help.
AI, what do we call these?
All right, so the next thing you did in this demo notebook
was you said salesdata.sketch.
And this is different before, I believe.
Because before you were saying ask.
And now you can say how to.
Create some derived features from the address.
Tell us about that.
- Yeah, so this is the one that actually is the code writing.
It's essentially the exact same prompt,
but the change is the very end.
It says, like, return this as Python code
that you can execute to do this.
So instead of answering the question directly,
answer the question with code that will answer the question.
- Right.
Write a Python line of code that will answer this question
given this data, something like that.
- Yep, yep, something like that.
I don't remember exactly anymore, it's been a while.
But yeah, some, I've iterated a little bit
until it started working and I was like, "Okay, cool."
And so, ask it for that and then it spits back code.
And that was, it sounds overly simple, but that was it.
That was the moment and I was just like,
"Oh, I could just ask it to do my analytics for me."
And it's just all the, every other feature
just sort of became like apparently solvable with this.
And the more I played with it, the more it was just,
oh, I don't have to think about,
I don't even have to go to Google or Stack Overflow
to ask the question to get the API stuff for me.
I could, from zero to I have code that's working
is one step in Jupyter.
- So you wrote that how-to and you gave it the question
and then it wrote the lines of code
and you just drop that into the next cell
and just run it, right?
And so for example, in this example, it said,
well, we can come up with city, state, and zip code
and by writing a vector transform
by passing a lambda that'll pull out, you know,
the city from the string that was the full address
and so on, right?
- Yeah.
- That's pretty neat.
- Yeah, it's fun to see what it does.
Again, not these things are always probabilistic,
but it also usually serves as a great starting point
if even if it doesn't get it right.
- Yeah, sure.
Like, okay, I see.
Maybe that's not exactly right
'cause we have Europeans in their city maybe,
and their zip code are in different orders sometimes,
but it gives you something to work with pretty quickly,
right, by asking just, what can I do?
And then another one, this one's a little more interesting.
Instead of just saying like, well,
what other things can we pull out?
It's like, this gets towards the analytic side, right?
It says, get the top five grossing states
for the sales data, right?
And it writes a group by some sorts and then it does a head given five.
And yeah, that's pretty neat.
Tell us about this.
I mean, I guess it's about the same, right?
Just ask more questions.
Yeah.
They all feel pretty similar to me.
I think I guess I could jump towards like things that I wanted to put next, but we're
not reliable enough to like really make the cut.
I wanted to have it go like, in my question was like, go build a model that predicts sales
for the next six months and then plot it on like, on a, you know, 2d plot with a dotted
line for the predicted plot.
And like, it would try, but it would, it would always do something off.
And I found I always had to break up the prompt into like smaller, smaller.
Get intern level code back.
Yeah, it sort of works.
Except, the real data.
It was fun getting it to train models, but it was also its own separate thing I didn't
play with too much.
So that's that.
There's another part of Sketch that I guess is not in this notebook, I didn't realize.
Because you have to use the OpenAI API key, but it's the Sketch Apply.
And that's the...
I'll say this one is another just power tool.
This one has...
I don't really talk about...
I don't even include it in the video because it's not just like as plug and play, you do
have to go set an environment variable.
And so it's like, it's one step further than I want to.
It's not terrible, but it's a step.
And so, but what it does is it lets you apply a completion endpoint of whatever your design
row wise.
So every single row, you can go and apply and run something.
So if every row of your pandas data frame is a, I don't know, some serialized text from
a PDF or a file in your directory structure, and you just load it as a data frame, you
can do .df.sketch.apply, and it's almost the exact same as df.apply.
But the thing you've put in as your function is now just a Jinja template that will fill
in your column variables for that row, and then ask GPT to continue completing.
So I think I did silly ones like here's a few states,
and then the prompt is extract the state for it.
Right, extract the capital of the state?
Yeah.
Yeah, so pure information extraction from it,
but you can--
this grows into a lot more.
So does that come out of the data,
or is that coming out of open AI where it sees
where is the capital of state, and it sees New York.
It's like, OK, well, all right, Albany.
- Yeah, this is purely extracting
out of the model weights, essentially.
This is not like a factual extraction.
So this is probably a bad example, 'cause it's like, eh.
But the thing that I actually,
actually the better example I did once was,
what is like some interesting colors
that are good for each state?
And it like just came up with a sort of like flaggish colors
or sports team colors.
That was sort of fun when it wrote that as hex.
You can also do things like,
if you have a large text document,
or you can, actually, I'll even do the more common one
that I think everybody actually wants,
is you have messy data, you have addresses
that are like syntactically messy,
and you can say, normalize these addresses
to be in this form.
And you sort of just write one example,
say run.apply, and you get a new column
that is that cleaned up data.
- Yeah, incredible.
Okay, a couple things here.
It says I can use, can directly call OpenAI
and not use your endpoints.
So at the moment, it kind of proxies through a web service
that you all have that somehow checks stuff,
or what does that do?
- Yeah, it was just a pure ease of use.
I wanted people to be able to do pip install
and import sketch and actually get it,
'cause I know how much I use things in Colab
or in Jupyter Notebooks on weird machines,
and remembering an environment variable, managing secrets,
it's like this whole overhead that I don't want to deal with.
And so I wanted to just offer a lightweight way
if you just want to be able to use it.
But I know that that's not sufficient for security.
People are going to be conscious of those things
and want to be able to not go through my proxy thing
that's there for help.
So I offer this up.
- What's next?
Do you have a roadmap for this?
Are you happy where it is and you're just letting it be?
- I don't have much of a roadmap for this right now.
I'm actually, I guess there's like grand roadmap,
which is like at the company scale, what we're working on.
I would say that if this, we're really trying to solve data and with AI just in general.
And so these are the types of things we hope to open source and just give out there like
actually everything we're hoping to open source.
But the starting place is going to be a bunch of these like smaller toolkits or just utility
things that hopefully save people time are very useful.
The grand thing we're working towards, I guess, is this more like the full automated data
stack.
I think that people have wanted, where you just ask it
questions, and it goes and pulls the data that you need.
It cleans it.
It builds up the full pipeline.
It executes the pipeline.
It gets you to the result, and it shows you the result.
And you can inspect all of that, that whole DAG,
and say, yes, I trust this.
So we're working on getting full end to end.
So when I went and asked about that Arrow program,
I said, I think this will still do it.
I think this will probably work again.
And it did, which is awesome, just the way I expected.
But AI is not as deterministic as read the number seven.
If seven is less than eight, do this.
What is the repeatability?
What is the experience of doing this?
I ran it.
I ran it again.
Is it going to be pretty much the same?
Or is it going to have--
what's the mood of the AI when it gets to you?
I guess, yeah, this is sort of a parameter you can--
there's a little bit of a parameter
you can set if you want to play that game with the temperature
parameter on these models.
At higher and higher temperatures,
you get more and more random.
But it can also truly be out of left field random
if you go too high temperature.
You get maybe more creative solutions.
Yeah, you could sometimes get that.
And as you move toward zero, it gets
more and more deterministic.
Unfortunately, for really trying to do
some good, provable, build chain type things
with like hashing and caching and stuff.
It's not fully deterministic even at zero temperature.
But that's just--
- I think it's worth thinking about,
but at the same time, run it once,
see the answers that it gives you,
comment that business out and just like,
put that as markdown.
Freeze it, memorialize it in markdown.
'Cause you don't need to ask it over and over
what columns have PII.
Well, probably the same ones as last time.
We're just going to write these columns,
credit card, social security, and purchase address.
They have that.
And so now you know, right?
- Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, there's always--
- Is that a reasonable way to think about it?
- I think, yeah, if you wanna get determinism
or the performance is a thing that you're worried about,
yeah, you can always cache.
I think however you do it,
comments or actually with systems.
- Sure, sure, sure.
Or that like, how do I do that group by sorting business?
You don't have to ask that over and over.
Once it gives you the answer--
Yeah.
Actually, yeah, my workflow when I use Sketch, definitely,
I ask the question, I copy the code,
and then I go delete the question
or ask a different question for my next problem that I have.
I don't really-- it's not code that--
it is a little bit vestigial when you save
your notebook at the end, and you sort of
want to go back and delete all the questions you asked.
Because you don't need to rerun it when you actually just
go to execute the notebook later.
>> Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
And plus, you look smarter if you
don't have to show how you got the answers.
>> Yeah, just look at this beautiful code that's
even commented.
>> Yeah, exactly.
I guess you could probably ask it to comment your code, right?
>> Yeah, you can ask it to describe.
There's been some really cool things where people will throw
like assembly at it and ask it to translate
to different languages so they can interpret it.
Or you could do really fun things like cross language,
cross--
I guess I'll say like levels of abstraction.
You could ask it to describe it at a very top level,
or you can get really precise, like for this line,
what are all the implications if I change a variable
or something like that.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
I suppose you could do that here.
Can you converse with it?
You can say, okay, you gave me this.
I guess, what's the word?
Does it have tokens and context like chat.ggp does?
Can you say, okay, that's cool,
but I want it as integers, not as strings.
I did not include that in this.
There was a version that had something like that
where I was sort of just keeping the last few calls around,
but it quickly became,
it didn't align with the Jupyter IDE experience
'cause you end up like scrolling up and down
and you have too much power over how you execute
in a Jupyter notebook.
So your context can change dramatically
by just scrolling up and trying to via inspect
look across different, like across a Jupyter notebook
as I was just a whole other nightmare.
So I didn't try and extract the code out of the notebook
so that it could understand the local context.
- You could go straight to ChatsCP or something like that,
take what it gave you and start asking it questions.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Okay, so another question that I had here about this,
so in order for it to do its magic,
like you said the really important thought
or breakthrough idea you had was like,
not just the structure of the pandas code
or anything like that,
but also a little bit about the data.
What is the privacy implications
of me asking this question about my data?
Suppose I have super duper secret CSV
and should I not ask or how to on it
or what is the story there?
If I work with data, how much sharing do I do
of something I might not wanna share
if I ask a question about it?
I'd say the same discretion you'd use if you would copy like a row or a few rows of that
data into ChatGPT to ask it a question about it.
Is the level of concern I guess you should have like on the specifically I am not storing
these things but I know like and I know OpenAI is at least it was it seems like they're going
to start getting towards like a 30 day thing.
But so there's a little bit of, yeah, I mean,
you're sending your stuff over the wire,
like over network, if you do this.
And to use these language models until they come local,
until these things like Llama and Alpaca get good enough,
that they're, yeah, they're gonna be remote.
Actually, that could be a fun, sorry.
I just now thought, that could be a fun thing.
Like just go get Alpaca working with Sketch
so that it can be fully local in your--
- Interesting, like a privacy preserving type of deal.
- Yeah, hadn't actually, yeah, that's the power
of these smaller models that are almost good enough.
I could probably just quickly throw that in here
and see if it has a wider audience of people.
>>You have an option to not get through your API
but directly go to OpenAI.
You could have another one to pick other options, right?
Potentially.
>>Yep, yep.
The interface to these,
one thing that I think is not,
maybe it's talked about it more in other places,
but I haven't heard as much excitement about it,
is that the APIs have gotten pretty nice for this whole space.
The idea of a completion endpoint is pretty straightforward.
You send it some amount of text, and it will continue that text.
And it's so simple, but it's so generalizable.
You could build so many tools off of just that one API endpoint, essentially.
And so combine that with an embedding endpoint,
and you sort of have all you need to make complex AI apps.
- That's crazy.
Speaking of making AI apps,
maybe touch a bit on your other projects, Lambda Prompt.
- So yeah, Lambda Prompt.
- Yeah, Lambda Prompt.
- But before you get into it,
mad props for like Greek letter.
Like that's a true physicist or mathematician.
I can appreciate that there.
- Yeah, I was excited to put it everywhere,
but then of course, you know, these things don't,
playing games with character sets and websites.
I'm the one that causes,
I both feel the pain, have to clean the data that I also put into these systems.
People are like, "A prompt?
Why is the A so italicized?"
I don't get it.
So this one came, I was working with, this is pre-GPT.
This is October.
I guess it was right around ChatGPT coming out, like around that time.
But I was really just messing around a lot with completion endpoints as we were talking.
And I kept rewriting the same request boilerplate over and over.
And then I also kept rewriting f-strings that I was trying to like send in.
And I was just like, "Ginja template solved this already."
Like there already is formatting for strings in Python.
Let me just use that, compose that into a function.
And just let me call these completion endpoints.
I don't want to think of them as like API endpoint or RPC is a nice mental model, but
I want to use them as functions.
I want to be able to put decorators on them.
I want to be able to use them both async or not async
in Python.
I just want to have this as a thing
that I can just call really quickly with one line
and just do whatever I need to with it.
And so through this together, it's very simple.
Like, honestly, I mean, the hardest part
was just getting all the layers of--
there's actually two things.
You can make a prompt that then--
because I wrap any function as a prompt,
So not just these calls to GPT.
And then I do tracing on it.
So as you like get into the call stack,
every input and output is you can sort of like
get hooked into and trace with some like call traces.
And so there's a bunch of just like weird stuff
to make the utility nice,
but functionally, as you can see here,
it's you just import it,
you write a Jinja template with the class,
and then you use that object that comes back as a function
and your Jinja template variables get filled in
And your result is the text string
that comes back out of GPT.
It's interesting.
People probably-- some people might be thinking, like,
Jinja, OK, well, I've got to create an HTML file,
and not just a string that has double curlies for turning
stuff into strings within the string.
Kind of a different way to do f strings,
as you were hinting at.
Yeah, yeah.
There was two pieces here.
I realized as I was doing this also--
I think I sort of mentioned with the sketch,
I really often was taking the output of a language model prompt, doing something in
Python or actually I can do a full example of the SQL writing like exploration we did.
But we would do these things that were sort of run GPT-3 to ask it to write the SQL.
You take the SQL, you go try and execute it, but it fails for whatever reason.
Or you and you take that error, you say, hey, rewrite it.
So we talked about that sort of pattern, which is sort of like rewriting.
Another one of the patterns was increase the temperature, ask it to write the SQL, you
get like 10 different SQL answers in parallel.
And this is where the async was like really important for this, because I just wanted
to use async IO gather and run all 10 of these truly in parallel against the open AI endpoint.
Get 10 different answers to the SQL, run all 10 queries against your database, then pull
on what the most common like of the ones that successfully ran, which ones gave the same
answer the most often.
I see. And that's probably the correct answer. And just chaining that stuff. It's like very
Pythonic functions like you can really just imagine like, oh, I just need to write a for
loop. I just need to, you know, run this function, take the output feed into another function.
Very procedural. But when you all the abstractions in the open at open AI API, the things like
just everything else, there was nothing else really at the time. But even the new ones
that have come out like Lang chain that have sort of like taken the space by storm now
are not really just trying to offer the minimal ingredient, which is the function. And to
me, it was just like, if I can just offer the function, I can write a for loop, I can
write, I can store a variable and then keep passing it into it. You could do so many different
emergent behaviors with just starting with the function and then simple Python scripting
on top of it.
- Got some interesting stuff here, Lando Prompt.
So you can start, you can kind of start it,
set it, I don't know, with ChatGPT,
you can tell it a few things.
I'm gonna ask you a question about a book, okay?
The book is a choose your own adventure book, okay?
Now here, I'm gonna, like you can prepare it, right?
There's probably a more formal term for that,
but you can do this here.
Like you can say, "Hey, system, you are a type of bot."
And then that creates you an object
that you can have a conversation with
and you say, what should we get for lunch?
And your type of bot is pirate.
And then so to say, as a pirate,
I would suggest we have some hearty seafood or whatever.
Right?
Like that's beyond what you're doing in a sketch.
I mean, obviously this is not so much for code.
This is like conversing with Python
rather than in Python, I don't know, in your editor.
- Yeah, this one was the OpenAI chat API endpoint came out
and I was just like, oh, I should support it.
So that's what this, I wanted to be able to ginger template
inside of the conversation.
So you can imagine a conversation that is prepared
with like seven steps back and forth,
but you want a hard code with the conversation,
like how the flow of the conversation was going,
and you want to template it so that like on message three,
it put your new context problem.
On message four, it put the output from another prompt
that you ran.
On message five, it is this other data thing.
And then you ask it to complete the intent of like,
that's arbitrarily complex, but still something like that
would be just three lines or so in Lambda prompt.
The idea was that it would offer up
a really simple API for this.
- Cool, other thing that's interesting
is you have an async and a sync version.
So that's cool, people can check that out.
Also a way to make it a hosted as a web service
with say like FastAPI or something like that.
- Yeah.
- And you can make it a decorator if you like,
an app prompt decorator.
- Yeah, on any function, you can just throw @prompt
and it wraps it with the same class
so that all the magic you get from that works.
The server bit is I took,
so FastAPI has that sort of like inspection
on the function part.
I did a little bit of middleware
to get the two happy together.
And then all you have to do is import FastAPI
and then run, you know, gunicorn that app.
And it's two lines
And any prompts you have made become their own
independent REST endpoint,
where you can just do a GET or a POST to it.
And it returns the response from calling the prompt.
But these prompts can also be these chains of prompts.
Like one prompt can call another prompt,
which can call another prompt.
And those prompts can call async to not async,
back to async and things like that.
And it should work.
Pretty sure.
This one actually, I did test everything as far as I know.
I'm pretty sure I've got pretty good coverage.
- Yeah, super cool.
All right, well, getting a little short on time,
but I think people are gonna really, really dig this,
especially Sketch.
I think there's a lot of folks out there doing pandas
that would love an AI buddy to help them do things,
like not just analyze the code, but the data as well.
- Yeah, just, I think anybody's, I know it's for me,
but it's just like Copilot in VS Code ID,
a sketch in your Jupyter ID, it takes almost nothing to add.
And whenever you're just sort of sitting there,
you think you're about to alt-tab to go to Google,
you can just try the sketch.ask.
And it's surprising how often that sketch.ask or sketch.howto
gets you way closer to a solution
without even having to leave--
you don't even have to leave your environment.
>>Victor: It's like a whole other level of autocomplete.
For sure.
That's super cool.
All right, now before I let you out of here,
you've got to answer the final two questions.
If you're going to write some Python code,
and it's not a Jupyter notebook, what editor are you using?
It sounds to me like you may have just given a strong hint
at what that might be.
- Yeah, I've switched almost entirely to VS Code
and I've been really liking it with the remote development
and I work across many machines,
both cloud and local and some five, six different machines
are my primary working machines
and I use the remote VS Code thing
and I have a unified environment that gives me terminal,
the files and the code all in one,
and Copilot on all of them.
- Yeah, it's wild.
All right, and then notable PyPI package,
I mean, pip install sketch,
you can throw that out there if you like,
that's pretty awesome.
But anything you've run across,
you're like, oh, this is,
people should know about this.
- Yeah. - Doesn't have to be popular,
just like, wow, this is cool.
- In the, I guess these two are very popular,
but in the data space, I really,
I'm a huge fan of Ray and also Arrow.
I use those two tools as my back end bread and butter
for everything I do.
And so those have just been really great workhorses.
- Apache Arrow, right?
And then Ray, I'm not sure.
- Ray is a distributed scheduling compute framework.
It's sort of like a, I don't know what they--
- Yeah, I remember seeing about this, yeah.
- This is, it is, I'm parsing,
we didn't talk about other things,
But I'm parsing Common Crawl, which
is like 25 petabytes of data.
And Ray is great.
It's just a workhorse.
It's really useful.
I find it's so snappy and good, but it
offers everything I need in a distributed environment.
So I can write code that runs on 100 machines
and not have to think about it.
It works really well.
That's pretty nuts.
Not as nuts as chat GDP and Midjourney,
but still pretty nuts.
So before we call it a day, do you
want to just tell people about Approximate Labs?
It sounds like you guys are making some good progress.
Might have some jobs for people to work in this kind of area
as well.
- Yeah, so we're working at the intersection
of AI and tabular data.
So anything related to these training,
these large language models and also tabular data.
So things with columns and rows.
We are trying to like solve that problem,
try and bridge the gap here
'cause there's a pretty big gap.
We have three main initiatives that we're working on,
which is we're trying to build up the data set of data sets.
So just like the pile or the stack or Leon5b,
these like big data sets that were used
to train all these big models,
we're making our own on tabular data.
We are training models.
So this is actually training large language models,
doing these training, these full transformer models.
And then we're also building apps like Sketch,
like UIs, things that are actually there
to help make data more accessible to people.
So anything that helps people get value from data
and make it open source, that's what we're working on.
We just raised our seed round,
so we are now officially hiring.
So looking for people who are interested in the space
and who are enthusiastic about these problems.
- Awesome.
Well, very exciting demo libraries, I guess,
however you call them.
But I think these are neat.
People are gonna find a lot of cool uses for them.
So excellent work and congrats on all the success so far.
It sounds like you're starting to take off.
Yeah.
Thank you.
- All right, Justin, final call to action.
People wanna get started.
Let's pick Sketch.
People wanna get started with Sketch.
What do you tell them?
- Just pip install it.
Give Sketch a try.
Pip install it, import it,
and then throw it on your data frame.
- Awesome.
And then ask it questions or how-tos, yeah?
- Yeah, yep, whatever you like.
If you really want to and you trust the model,
like throw some applies and have it clean your data for you.
- Cool, awesome.
All right, well, thanks for being on the show.
- Come here and tell us about all your work.
It's great.
- Yeah, thank you.
- Yeah, see you later.
Bye.